This is Vicki MacDonald at Holy Trinity Church, Flandernow, during the longest yarn.
And I'm with Brian, who is going to talk to me about his father and the war.
Well, I was born on the 4th of December 1942, and I was born in Bedford, in the county of Bedfordshire.
And the reason was, is that if you had a pregnant wife during the war, and your husband worked and was in the REF 138 Squadron,
Thamesford, which was the spy squadron, you were never allowed to leave the squadron.
If you wish to see an offspring that was about to be born, the only chance of seeing it is if your wife,
wherever she lived in the country, was prepared to risk coming to Bedford Hospital and the child being born there.
So my mother decided to take the risk from living in Trinton, Manchester, and took the train heavily pregnant to the hospital in Bedford, where I was born.
And my dad, who was a leading aircraftman in the squadron, was escorted from the squadron by two military police to Bedford Hospital to see me,
then taken back to the base. He spent the whole of his war in 138 Squadron.
They flew Lysander aircraft over occupied Europe, and they dropped the spies.
So they would take someone like a Winston Churchill to a secret meeting in France or Germany.
The meeting would take place. The flight would be overnight by moonlight into a field that had three lights of different colors to say,
safe to land or not safe to land. The meeting would take place maybe in a barn.
The meeting would be finished. The spy would then be back into the Lysander. Lysander would fly back to Thamesford.
At Thamesford, there is a very large barn, still there with no windows, and the agent would then be taken from the aircraft at dark to the barn,
where they would have 48 hours of debriefing and given their new orders.
And then at the end of the 48 hours, the agent would then at night be taken from the barn, put into the Lysander and flown back to occupied Europe.
If they were captured, and some of them unfortunately were, then they would be interrogated and they never knew where they were taken to,
because it was only ever in the dark into a barn with no windows.
48 hours interrogation, new orders back to the aircraft and then flown into occupied Europe.
So that was what happened. And Brian Lever, born in Bedford Hospital on the 4th of December, 42, left Bedford after one week.
And mum went back to Manchester. And then I spent all the war years with my granny, granddad and mum living in Shrinter, Manchester.
And every evening my granddad took me into his Anderson shelter, where he had a steep garden.
And he dug the Anderson shelter so it was right into the earth. And I can remember my first recollection, I was probably about three years old.
And I can remember the little tea light that my granny lit every night to keep you safe.
So when dad arrived at the end of 45, I'd never met him and never knew him.
And who was this person who came in the middle of my triangle of granny, granddad and mum?
So it was a very tough time for the first six months of me and this person getting to know each other.
And obviously thousands of children during the Second World War had the same problem.
If you were born early in the war, you never saw your father, you were lucky if he came back.
And if he did came back, he came into an established, normally your grandparents and your mother.
And the arrangement then became this person arrived and you didn't know who it was.
That's really interesting. Can I ask you, how did you know about what he did? Did he tell you or did you find his records later in life?
I can tell you a particular story which happened in 1944.
I build and fly model aircraft and I have a modeling room at home just for making and building the aircraft.
And I've got a King's Order commendation on the wall.
And this was my father in 1944.
And the Lye Sanders, there were six of this particular aircraft that did the night flights.
And there was a fighter pilot who had had a mental breakdown.
And the idea of helping him recover was to put him onto bombers rather than fighters, you can imagine.
So the aircraft, the Lye Sanders were on the perimeter of the airfield adjacent to the main runway.
And the Stirling bomber was loaded up for a bombing raid that night.
And the particular pilot who had the breakdown went to the aircraft, he was going to fly it.
And he was fiddling around and he dropped the whole bomb load.
So there was an emergency in the air and everybody had to run to the opposite side because there was a full bomb load, 10 tons of bombs on the perimeter track.
And my dad, God bless him, he couldn't bear the thought of these Lye Sanders all getting blown up to bits.
So he ran and got a tractor and one by one he towed them 150 yards away from where the bombs were without really thinking about it.
As it was, the bombs never went off.
I hope he got a DSO for this.
So he didn't get a DSO for it, but he got a commendation from the King, from the King to say, you know, God bless you for saving all of our Lye Sanders.
And I still have that.
So how do I know all this?
Because in the latter years of my father's life, 138 Squadron had an annual reunion.
And if you had children from that era, you were allowed to accompany your parents.
So I was very honoured over 12 years of my father's life to go to the annual commemoration of the Squadron and what it did.
So I met all these amazing people.
And you heard all their stories?
I heard all their stories, yes.
Amazing.
It was fantastic.
Yeah. Oh, Brian, thank you so much.
And I have the last Squadron reunion, I think, was in something like, perhaps it was 2002, something like that.
And the format of it was that you met in a pub, you went to a church and we had a church service in Thamesford.
Then you went to the Village Hall.
And for the last one, they managed to get some of the ladies of the era to dress up in their little tiny black uniforms and serve as the meal.
And then we went to the airfield.
And one of my aeromodelling friends, who's a full-size pilot, he flew the Lysander from near Tuxford Airfield.
And they did 10 minutes of flying over us.
And I remember everybody was weeping.
I can imagine crying, absolutely.
Yeah.
Gosh, lovely, lovely memories.
Thank you so much.
I'm so pleased that we met.